
Things to do:
=> BOOK: Chapter 1 all definitions
=> BOOK: Mean Median Mode Skewness Kurtosis chapter 3
=> Mean median mode questions: https://statistics.laerd.com/statistical-guides/measures-central-tendency-mean-mode-median-faqs.php
=> Class notes (Discrete prob)
=> Revise previous class notes
=> Question papers 

----------------------------

Class Notes:


----------------------------
Chapter-4 :

Terms:
probability
experiment
sample space
experimental outcomes
sample space outcomes


The Addition Rule
Mutually Exclusive Events

Conditional probability: The probability of the event A, given the condition that the event B has occurred, is written
as P(A | B)—pronounced “the probability of A given B.” We often refer to such a probability as
the conditional probability of A given B.



Formulas:



----------------------------

CHAPTER: 4 - Discrete Random Variables

A random variable is a variable that assumes numerical values that are determined by the
outcome of an experiment, where one and only one numerical value is assigned to each experi-
mental outcome.

Some other examples of continuous random variables are
1 The temperature (in degrees Fahrenheit) of a cup of coffee served at a McDonald’s restaurant.
2 The weight (in ounces) of strawberry preserves dispensed by an automatic filling machine
into a 16-ounce jar.
3 The time (in minutes) that a customer in a store must wait to receive a credit card authorization.
4 The interest rate (in percent) charged for mortgage loans at a bank.

CONCEPTS
LO5-2 Find a
discrete
probability distribu-
tion and compute
its mean and
standard deviation.
5.1 Explain the concept of a random variable.
5.2 Explain how the values of a discrete random variable differ from the values of a continuous random
variable.
5.3 Classify each of the following random variables as discrete or continuous:
a x  the number of girls born to a couple who will have three children.
b x  the number of defects found on an automobile at final inspection.
c x  the weight (in ounces) of the sandwich meat placed on a submarine sandwich.
d x  the number of incorrect lab procedures conducted at a hospital during a particular week.
e x  the number of customers served during a given day at a drive-through window.
f x  the time needed by a clerk to complete a task.
g x  the temperature of a pizza oven at a particular time.

The probability distribution of a discrete random variable is a table, graph, or formula that
gives the probability associated with each possible value that the random variable can assume. We denote the probability distribution of the discrete random variable x as p(x).

In general, a discrete probability distribution p(x) must satisfy two conditions:
Properties of a Discrete Probability Distribution p(x)
A discrete probability distribution p(x) must be such that
1. 0 <= p(x) <= 1 
2. Summation of all p(x) = 1

The Mean, or Expected Value, of a Discrete Random Variable x is
Mu(x) = summation Xi.p(x)
When we calculate the expected value Mu(x) we mean that in the long run it is expected Discrete Random Variable X will take value Mu(x) during future events. 