URL -> DNS servers convert to www.xyz.com to physical ip address or the server ip address -> DNS recursor -> TCP/IP (SYN,SYN/ACK,ACK) three way handshake connection
via HTTP or HTTPS established -> get into file directory specified by HTTPS/HTTP get put post delete requests in header -> Server uses Apache tomcat/express 
server to hadle requests -> sends JSON/XML of status code!200,404,501, cache-control, content-type, cookies, compression -> browser displays

DNS(Domain Name System) is a database that maintains the name of the website (URL) and the particular IP address it links to.
In order to find the DNS record, the browser checks four caches.

? First, it checks the browser cache. The browser maintains a repository of DNS records for a fixed duration for websites you have previously visited. So, it is 
the first place to run a DNS query.

? Second, the browser checks the OS cache. If it is not found in the browser cache, the browser would make a system call (i.e. gethostname on Windows) to your 
underlying computer OS to fetch the record since the OS also maintains a cache of DNS records.

? Third, it checks the router cache. If it’s not found on your computer, the browser would communicate with the router that maintains its’ own cache of DNS records.

? Fourth, it checks the ISP cache. If all steps fail, the browser would move on to the ISP. Your ISP maintains its’ own DNS server which includes a cache of DNS 
records which the browser would check with the last hope of finding your requested URL.

3. If the requested URL is not in the cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find the IP address of the server that hosts maps.google.com.
As mentioned earlier, in order for my computer to connect with the server that hosts maps.google.com, I need the IP address of maps.google.com. The purpose of a 
DNS query is to search multiple DNS servers on the internet until it finds the correct IP address for the website. This type of search is called a recursive 
search since the search will continue repeatedly from DNS server to DNS server until it either finds the IP address we need or returns an error response saying 
it was unable to find it.
In this situation, we would call the ISP’s DNS server a DNS recursor whose responsibility is to find the proper IP address of the intended domain name by 
asking other DNS servers on the internet for an answer. 

READ : https://medium.com/@maneesha.wijesinghe1/what-happens-when-you-type-an-url-in-the-browser-and-press-enter-bb0aa2449c1a
i was confused what does amazon's aws route 53 do and why i have to pay 0.5 dollars just for DNS resolution every month

4. Browser initiates a TCP connection with the server.
Once the browser receives the correct IP address it will build a connection with the server that matches IP address to transfer information. Browsers use 
protocols to build such connections. There are a number of different internet protocols which can be used but TCP is the most common protocol used for any type 
of HTTP request.

In order to transfer data packets between your computer(client) and the server, it is important to have a TCP connection established. This connection is established 
using a process called the TCP/IP three-way handshake. This is a three step process where the client and the server exchange SYN(synchronize) and ACK(acknowledge) 
messages to establish a connection.

1. Client machine sends a SYN packet to the server over the internet asking if it is open for new connections.

2. If the server has open ports that can accept and initiate new connections, it’ll respond with an ACKnowledgment of the SYN packet using a SYN/ACK packet.

3. The client will receive the SYN/ACK packet from the server and will acknowledge it by sending an ACK packet.

Then a TCP connection is established for data transmission!

-------------------------------------- SESSION AND COOKIES -------------------------------------------
Sessions and cookies
We usually tells that HTTP is stateless. What does this mean?
Stateless means, server does not know about your past request. All requests by your browser are considered as a new one.
Session is the period of time that a user spends on a web site. So we can think session as a time interval between login 
and logout. This session is maintained because of cookies. There are different types of cookies. The cookies used for session management is called session cookie.

in the very first request to the server from a browser, the HTTP request will not have a cookie value. So server will set a new cookie for that browser session 
and sends it back with the response. So the browser will store the cookie for that domain.

Flow of session management using cookies.

Browser sends a new login request R1 to the Facebook server.
Then facebook will check whether there is any cookie is sent by the browser.
Since this is the new request, there will be no cookie value in the database.
So Facebook will send a cookie to your browser and Facebook will store its ID.
Then the browser will set that cookie for that Facebook domain.
With the each request for Facebook domain, your browser should send the cookie in the HTTP header.
Then Facebook will check whether it has the ID sent by the browser. If that exists, then facebook will use the session indicated by the cookie.

The first option is expires, which indicates when the cookie should no longer be sent to the server and therefore may be deleted by the browser. Without the 
expires option, a cookie has a lifespan of a single session. A session is defined as finished when the browser is shut down, so session cookies exist only while 
the browser remains open. This is why you’ll often see a checkbox when signing into a web application asking if you would like your login information to be saved: 
if you select yes, then an expires option is attached to the login cookie. If the expires option is set to a date that appears in the past, then the cookie is 
immediately deleted.


----------------------------------------- REACT: DOM VS VIRTUAL DOM  -------------------------------------------

DOM can be thought of an instance of a class having lots of properties to change functions of nodes
http://reactkungfu.com/2015/10/the-difference-between-virtual-dom-and-dom/

https://www.edureka.co/blog/interview-questions/react-interview-questions/

SYnchronous and this.setState is asynchronous


-----------------------------------------  Node.js  ------------------------------------------








